Incoming livestream: Thank you. Hi everyone, this is gonna be a bit of whiplash, moving from hardware hacking to whatever I'm about to talk about, but stick with me, we'll get there. I'm Rami, I'm a security researcher at Wiz, and this talk is about the series of supply chain attacks.
Incoming livestream: that have been crossing NPM and GitHub in the past year. But it's not really about that. It's about how AI has developed in the past year, how models have improved, how harnesses have improved, and how your practices should have improved as well. And it's not really that as well, it's just basically me showing a bunch of things I've done with AI around these attacks, and talking about what I've learned, the intuition I've built about how to use AI,
Incoming livestream: Where it fails, where it succeeds, and hopefully you can take away something to do with it as well.
Incoming livestream: So…
Incoming livestream: With that being said, the past year is something I've been talking about as the Year of the Worm. There were a series of supply chain attacks, right? Singularity, Shaihalud, the NPM chalk attack…
Incoming livestream: hitting mostly the NPM ecosystem, and in many cases, starting in August, resulting in large amounts of data leaking out onto GitHub, with Singularity. And our problem here, right, is that we need to capture this data, analyze it, and figure out who it belongs to so that we can notify victims, so that companies can respond and recover.
Incoming livestream: However, the data's ephemeral. GitHub cleans it up, victims clean it up, the data is going to go away, and once it's gone, it becomes very hard to answer those questions of, was I impacted? And these challenges are AI-shaped, right? Scaling, collection, analyzing the data at high speed, doing victim attribution, and I'm gonna talk about all the ways that that's true.
Incoming livestream: So, like, goal one is, how do we get this data? Like, the data's still leaking, I know it's gonna be ephemeral, I want to move quickly and collect as much data as I can, not because I enjoy having gigabytes of secrets on my disk, but because I want to help people. And, like, just to flash up what it looked like in the Singularity attack.
Incoming livestream: what we had was these GitHub repositories called Singularity Repository.
Incoming livestream: that's an encoded data, but you just have to believe me that there's a whole bunch of secrets in there. And so, what do we do, right? This isn't a data scraping talk, so I'm just gonna give you the naive example. You go to Claude, and I recreated this last week, I originally did this in August, just so that folks couldn't tell me it was using an old model or an old coding harness, right? And you say, hey, you know, use the GitHub Cly to grab all of these repositories.
Incoming livestream: repositories by name.
Incoming livestream: And what's interesting when you do this is, it totally works, right? It's still magic that AI generates code that works at all, but there's a whole bunch of things missing when you ask such a simple, stupid question. You're missing non-functional and functional requirements. You're missing things like.
Incoming livestream: caching, like idimpotency, like handling of search rate limiting, creative approaches to scraping, parallelization, back-offs. There are all these things that AI does not solve for you or give you unless you are using it right. And so, like.
Incoming livestream: One is you can't just assume you can give a dumb prompt and AI will pop out magic, you have to be thoughtful. But you also can build harnesses and processes and approaches that bake this in. So, one thing to think about is the idea of an RPI loop.
Incoming livestream: You should be asking AI to research, asking AI to plan, and then finally going to implementation. Don't just jump to, you know, please write this script.
Incoming livestream: This is also something that can be encoded in the tools. Claude has plan mode. Plan mode is, like, a couple lines of prompt that says, stop and plan and don't write any code yet. You can also build your own harnesses, or adopt alternative ones, whatever platform you're in. Going a bit further, there's a repository called Superpowers that tries to encode a seven-step process for developing code. And this talk is not telling you, like.
Incoming livestream: go pull down superpowers and start using it to solve all your problems. But I really want to emphasize that you need to be thinking about
Incoming livestream: how you are engaging with these tools, because the magic of code generation is one thing, but actually using them in practice is another. And so, superpowers gives you a brainstorming as stage one, which is, again, very similar to that RPI loop.
Incoming livestream: And there's another thing about, like, working in rapid iteration with these AI tools. This is something I stole from Simon, I think he wrote it, like, 3 days ago, so it's pretty fresh. But he wrote it called, Hoard Things You Know How to Do. And I think about it as building composable utilities.
Incoming livestream: as you're vibe coding, as you're working with AI, people are telling you code is free, people are telling you you can throw away code. I somewhat agree, but it took you effort to get there. The effort's gonna get lower and lower over time, but as you build some of these utilities, you're gonna find yourself wanting to reach back for them.
Incoming livestream: And the vibe coding patterns, for me at least, result in a whole bunch of data strewn around my disk that I don't know how to reference in the future. So thinking about how you're gonna do management of all of these small utilities, skills, the things you're building, so that your investment can compound is really important.
Incoming livestream: So, we scrape the data, and what do we end up with? Well, like, poor man's data lake, right? A quarter of a million flat files, 30 gigabytes, by no means big data. You know, you can work with it on your laptop.
Incoming livestream: but enough data that linear scanning gets I.O.bound.
Incoming livestream: I, like, talk about the shape of the data here, because what's interesting is, despite, you know, several iterations of working with data of this shape with AI, I noticed that AI is actually never gonna question the abstraction you give it. So when you give it flat files on disk, that is what AI assumes to work with.
Incoming livestream: And you're not gonna get to that point where it's questioning whether this should be indexed, whether this should be SQL, Parquet, right? So again, a thing you have to pull back and plan for.
Incoming livestream: And fundamentally, the idea that, like, flat files are the final abstraction of AI, I think is untrue. And there's been some recent analysis from Vercel and Brain Trust, for example, that talks about this idea that there are things that AI is good with bash and flat files, and there are times when you want to start to move into, you know, more indexed database querying patterns.
Incoming livestream: Okay, we have a whole bunch of data. What is the shape of the data? How do we analyze it? How do we understand what happened here, and what's going on?
Incoming livestream: So, the first thing that was a really cool one-shot from AI was the concept of fingerprinting. So we had 30,000 leaked repositories full of data from various machines, right? So it would be environment files, the results of truffle hog scans, a whole lot of data. But…
Incoming livestream: in looking at the data, you could see things like CICD runs having duplicate data. So it wasn't actually 30,000 victims, and being able to use Claude to derive signals is a huge part of it, being able to use these AI tools. And so being able to, like, one-shot a fingerprint.
Incoming livestream: that would let me deduplicate machines, lets you think more critically about the underlying data. And so, when you're analyzing data with AI, I would say think about deduplication, fingerprinting, but especially, AI is really good at signal extraction, pattern matching, identifying the shape of the data.
Incoming livestream: And that ports as well to identifying, like, useful metadata. So we were looking at this data.
Incoming livestream: it's, you know, malware had run on machines and leaked data. Were those machines user laptops, or were they CICD systems? Were those systems containerized? What sort of programming languages were running? What sort of packaging ecosystems? Could we analyze the packages that had been the initial root cause of this incident?
Incoming livestream: And again, the ability to jump from a human trying to identify these patterns to Claude kicking out, you know, 25 different environment variables that signify various CICD platforms I've never heard of is a big level up.
Incoming livestream: But…
Incoming livestream: like, I've been talking about patterns AI can recognize, but I also want to talk about approach, and really advocate for this idea of feedback loops and codification. So when you're working with AI for data analysis, when you're building an AI process.
Incoming livestream: I always try and get to more deterministic methods where possible, right? So, like, we're trying to analyze this data. Instead of asking an AI to iteratively analyze 30 gigabytes, you want to use the AI to generate a more deterministic script, to encode some patterns, some signatures, for scalability, consistency, iteration, backtesting. If you're asking AI to analyze the data over and over again, you're gonna get different small samples.
Incoming livestream: And so instead, you can distill the learnings and codify them into something more deterministic. And so in this case, we found out from that fingerprinting, there were 13,000 unique machines, not 30, 77% of CICD runners.
Incoming livestream: Okay, so we know the shape of the data, we've started to look at it. The big question here, really, and, like, where I really had to lean on AI was trying to attribute it. I have 13,000 repositories, how do I find out who the heck's data this is, and, maybe give it back to them?
Incoming livestream: And, like, in increasing order of sophistication-ish, I would start from this idea of, like, the magic of reasoning models, something we're all familiar with,
Incoming livestream: This is me being abusive towards Gemini. I took
Incoming livestream: every GitHub repository name from this dataset.
Incoming livestream: I forgot to add new lines, so they were all merged into a single string. I fed them into Gemini, and I provided garbage and got back gold, right? You're able to ask questions like, find me the 10 major companies. Now, you can't ask, find me every company, but you can start to take samples at very high signal. Reasoning models have really changed this game, for, like, processing bulk uncleaned data.
Incoming livestream: And you also need to think about the approximate knowledge of many things present in AI. Like, it's not just the fact that it can analyze this data, but it's the fact that so much knowledge is encoded that you can start doing different pattern matching, right? So, it knows what, companies or domains are associated with government entities. And it was even familiar with things like the Fortune 100, or you could do the AI Top 15,
Incoming livestream: or you could ask about the top VC fundraisers of the last year, right? There's all sorts of ways to slice this data with reasoning models.
Incoming livestream: And the upside is creativity. One of the things that surprised me, and maybe I was naive, but,
Incoming livestream: you know, Claude analyzing this data, anthropic models, other models, right, can identify that an encoded JWT is likely to contain claims that had signal worth extracting, right? Looking at an encoded string as an LLM and pulling out that sort of signal was surprising and creative, and something maybe I wouldn't have thought of.
Incoming livestream: But the downside is credulity. Especially for security use cases, the credulity, the gullibility of LLMs becomes really dangerous.
Incoming livestream: So these were cases where, like, the string nucleus appeared in some data, and somehow it connected it to a specific company that uses a platform named Nucleus, which is, I think, an incredibly common name for platforms.
Incoming livestream: Anyone using, you know, Azure DevOps must mean they work at Microsoft and are a Microsoft victim.
Incoming livestream: And similarly, like, finding JWTs that have logins to consumer Microsoft services and attributing that.
Incoming livestream: So, the double-edged sword here, creativity and credulity.
Incoming livestream: There's also a challenge with, like, exploring the entire coverage. Coverage is really hard when you're building some of these systems, and it's all about the harnesses, not the models, I think.
Incoming livestream: Ai will almost always take a shortcut and a sample. If you ask AI to analyze all of something, write me every rule, cover all of this data, give me every company, you're gonna get back, you know, oh, I decided to pick the top 10 for you, aren't I so helpful?
Incoming livestream: This is where, like, Ralph Loops come in, something very trendy recently, but this idea that you just, like, keep an automated harness that re-prompts it to keep going, keep going, keep going, until it eats…
Incoming livestream: hits exit criteria, and that's a simple while loop, but the idea is sound, that you need to be thinking about how you're harnessing these models into your processes, and what the behaviors you want are. If you want coverage, you have to know that that's not something you get by default.
Incoming livestream: Okay.
Incoming livestream: Pivoting a little on examples. Another place that, we thought of to mine signal was enriching secrets, right? There are a bunch of secrets in this data. If we enrich and validate the secrets, we can find, potentially, the user it belongs to, or the company, and use that information as attribution signal.
Incoming livestream: There are a lot of secrets tools, I frequently used Truffle Hog in the past.
Incoming livestream: It's been a very popular tool for a long time, partially because it has a really robust library of detectors. It has almost 800 detectors, I think.
Incoming livestream: And for a long time in security, picking a tool was about picking your ruleset, right? Like, you would pick up Bandit or something, because you knew it had the best rules for that SaaS language.
Incoming livestream: And that's not true anymore. So, in this case, Truffle Hog had characteristics that were undesirable. It's commonly fingerprinted and causes alerts, which can cause noise for teams. Validation has a high rate of false negatives, I'd seen in past research. It's relatively slow.
Incoming livestream: And so, you know, 2.53, I just say, hey, go find all of the rules here that are trivial. Rules that have secrets, that have prefixes, it's a GET request or a POST request to validate the secret. It's really easy for an LLM to port that over. And, 30 minutes later, I have 58 new rules in a totally different engine.
Incoming livestream: And it's less so about, like, what secret scanning tool you should be using, and it's very much about this idea that product content, rules,
Incoming livestream: detectors are becoming fungible, and the engines are really what's starting to matter. Because you can start porting around content, and you should be thinking about the engine characteristics. Do you want something that's fast? Do you want something that has a low rate of false positives, or a low rate of…
Incoming livestream: False negatives. What are you optimizing for? And pick your engine, and just assume you can move the rules around between tools.
Incoming livestream: Whether that's in open source or, you know, maybe porting something like Sigma Rules to a proprietary platform, right? I think rules are becoming much more fungible.
Incoming livestream: So…
Incoming livestream: When I talked about the victimology, I talked a little bit about codifying things in scripts and moving towards determinism.
Incoming livestream: I also have been talking a lot with folks about this idea of feedback loops with how we use AI. Ai is a tool that's part of a toolkit, and so I really like to think about it as how it fits in the overall ecosystem. And so what that process looks like here was…
Incoming livestream: Taking AI-based analysis samples and running it through an attribution scale.
Incoming livestream: and then taking that result, that new signal, and identifying new deterministic rules we could add, that we could then run and see the uplift. Did this increase our coverage?
Incoming livestream: And so, here's an example where it identified a new variable that hosted what appeared to be self-hosted Git instances.
Incoming livestream: And then after we ran this, we found, you know, a major Russian e-commerce company that I've failed to censor there because I don't really want to. But also, like, a Portuguese company, a Thai fintech, a US Fortune 500, and this is just one signal. And so this pattern of taking samples, but then having the feedback loop into, you know, more concrete rules.
Incoming livestream: then improves your ability on future scans to sort of repeat the cycle. And I think this is true outside of this, like, data analysis space. If you're building detections, right? If you're building, configuration rules, I think this same loop of using AI, but trying to use AI to get to determinism really applies.
Incoming livestream: Use AI for the things that it's uniquely good at. Don't necessarily, like, rip and replace all your deterministic methods.
Incoming livestream: So…
Incoming livestream: The end result here was, like, a gentic analysis tool. This was something where I had 69 different attribution methods that had been built, mostly by AI at this point. And so you would, like, extract a bunch of signals, take those signals, and use them to guess at the company, and then do some enrichment from secrets, enrichment, GitHub API lookups, etc.
Incoming livestream: And so, like, just as an example here, right, like, we have everything from GitHub Enterprise instances, to orgs, to extracting things from JWTs. Again, this isn't about how to do attribution, necessarily, so going through all 69 isn't interesting, but it's worth pointing out that there's a long tail here, which is where that AI loop comes into play.
Incoming livestream: So… credulity was something I mentioned earlier, and I want to talk about, like.
Incoming livestream: the most basic counterpoint to credulity you can do is to inject skepticism. So, in a naive way, injecting skepticism into the system is just stopping yourself in a, you know, in a chat session with a coding agent and saying, hey, let's slow down, let's check if these are true positives, right?
Incoming livestream: creating an attribution skill, running it through. There's also way more sophisticated harness-based approaches you can take. You could actually write a skeptical persona and run, you know, a mix of agents who are sort of balancing each other out.
Incoming livestream: But fundamentally, I think that you need to inject skepticism when doing these cases, because the baseline alignment feels a little credulous for a lot of security purposes.
Incoming livestream: Human in the loop. So, we talked a lot about how to do these feedback loops with AI, right? Like, AI for analysis, distilled deterministic rules, but at some point, I also was seeing that there were just patterns I could identify that AI wasn't pulling out, right? Like, there were short terms that I knew that AI wasn't identifying.
Incoming livestream: And what's really cool here, actually, is the new concept of just-in-time programs. So, when you're working with AI for analysis, what's really cool is that instead of, like, manually looking at data, it's almost always more efficient these days to just prompt up a throwaway tool, right? Like, you can just create a tool here, in this case, that let me skim the data,
Incoming livestream: identify the attributes that I thought had signal, and then feed those to the LM to do iterative cycles. And so, being able to build these throwaway tools is something you should be reaching for all the time. It's one of those things in your tool belt that once you know it exists, all of a sudden you find a lot of hammer-shaped nails, or what have you.
Incoming livestream: And, like, this was the case here, where, I noticed that there were Azure DevOps org slugs.
Incoming livestream: And I happen to know that you can actually transit from those through to tenant IDs, through into actual domains, through, like, some poorly documented APIs, something I'd been looking at recently. This was something AI didn't pull out, like, props to me, pat myself on the back.
Incoming livestream: But then you just feed it to an LM, and all of a sudden you have a six-stage enrichment as one of the 69 different enrichments in this engine, right? You know, transiting through OpenID lookups, through API calls, and then actually distilling what the most likely match is.
Incoming livestream: So, what did this all get me?
Incoming livestream: Well, the headline number I've been using is that the Shihalud 2.0 incident concretely impacted at least 37 of the Fortune 100. I have manually confirmed all of those cases, I'm not relying on LLM to tell me that.
Incoming livestream: 37 of the Fortune 100 had some level of impact from this incident. But more importantly, the agentic analysis found over 2,400 impacted companies. And this was after, sort of, 2 days of building this engine, heavily leveraging AI.
Incoming livestream: The two weeks prior, I had done a lot of this manually, and I had found 200 impacted companies. And so an idea of scale. Now, this doesn't solve all your problems, but, it, you know, really goes to show the argument for relative investment to relative output.
Incoming livestream: And… we will see… Oh, no.
Incoming livestream: Okay.
Incoming livestream: Okay. Okay, so quick demo here, and something to take away. This is not the point of the talk, but I figured, why not?
Incoming livestream: Here's an example of an attribution skill that encodes a lot of the generalist knowledge that was relevant. Not this specific instance, like, 69 attribution methods, but just this idea of, given a directory full of data, whose is it? And so I'm running here just the attribution skill against a random repository, and apologies if it's a little blurry, you never know. But what is gonna be, sort of, evident
Incoming livestream: in 3 seconds or so, is that it will kick out the actual victim here. And what is gonna be really interesting is this victim was the Alibaba example, but it actually identified inside the truffle secrets
Incoming livestream: that one of the secrets was sourced from a .file that is used by an internal developer tool for Alibaba AI. So this, like, these connections that it's making are something that you can't necessarily do yourself.
Incoming livestream: And the second skill here is a security contact skill. How do you know who to tell about these 2,000 instances? Well, you can Google, like, company name bug bounty, company name security.txt, company name, how do I report a security issue, company name cert. It takes a minute to run a skill here, but the skill will check all of those things for you in parallel, and for Alibaba, we'll end up kicking out their bug bounty and VR.
Incoming livestream: W, VDP.
Incoming livestream: So, this was something where I constantly find myself just, like, hoping that the first Google result is correct, otherwise it turns into 30 minutes of stalking people on LinkedIn.
Incoming livestream: And so I wanted to save some PL some time. So, that is what I will leave you with. There's a repository there that has those two skills. Take them, you know, use them, mix them up, and… that's what I got.
Incoming livestream: It's like a mini… like a fractal set of tools in there. I'm excited to put this to use. Questions? Questions for Army?
Incoming livestream: Must do. Oh, okay, all the way back there. Oh, that's inconvenient. Alright.
Incoming livestream: While we're going and setting up for Daniel's talk, yeah, it was called. Where was the hand? I lost the hand. Thank you.
Incoming livestream: Awesome, thank you. Really appreciate the talk, Rami. One of the things that you mentioned, though, was the value of these ephemeral tools.
Incoming livestream: That you're creating on the fly. I'm curious if you see, like, any tension there, and how you may handle it as far as maintaining the reusability of those tools, not reinventing the wheel, so to speak?
Incoming livestream: Yeah, it's a great question. I mean, to quote the wonderful folks at OpenAI from this morning, code is free. I'm not too worried about throwing away code these days, because I can do the work to get it back.
Incoming livestream: I think you should think about your stakeholders and purpose, right? If you are building a tool for your team to use in a weekly process, put a little more thought into it.
Incoming livestream: But this is really about the fact that you can now trivially put a GUI on any process you're about to do. If you're about to sit down and do something for an hour, think about whether 10 minutes of that would be better served by making a clean UX that isn't necessarily a terminal.
Incoming livestream: Anything else?
Incoming livestream: It's… because a lot of people are asking AI questions, excuse me, cost of AI questions, like, any sense of what the token burn is for this? Is it sort of one time, or do you find it negligible?
Incoming livestream: Yeah, I find it negligible because I'm not paying, to be honest, but, I think something like this, on the order of $80, I think is where it works out to, and again, that's because I'm not feeding 30GB to the context window every time. That is where using some of these deterministic methods can shortcut some of the, you know, token usage, especially when you're taking samples. And that would scale up linearly if you were taking
Incoming livestream: More samples and sort of repeating ad infinium.
Incoming livestream: Cool. Awesome. Thank you very much. Yeah. Thank you.